[rust-sdk] docs and examples (#12928)
MystenLabs/sui: crates/sui-sdk/README.md

An example that connects to the Sui `testnet` and `devnet` networks follows.

```rust
use sui_sdk::SuiClientBuilder;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), anyhow::Error> {
    // Sui devnet -- https://fullnode.devnet.sui.io:443
    let sui_devnet = SuiClientBuilder::default().build_devnet().await?;
    println!("Sui devnet version: {}", sui_devnet.api_version());

    // Sui testnet -- https://fullnode.testnet.sui.io:443
    let sui_testnet = SuiClientBuilder::default().build_testnet().await?;
    println!("Sui testnet version: {}", sui_testnet.api_version());

    Ok(())
}

```

# Rust SDK examples

The [examples](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/crates/sui-sdk/examples) folder provides both basic and advanced examples.

There are five files ending in `_api.rs` which provide code examples of the corresponding APIs and their methods. These showcase how to use the Sui Rust SDK, and can run against the Sui testnet. Below are instructions on the prerequisites and how to run these examples.

> ## Preqrequisites

Reviewer: nit, sp.

* `cargo run --example sui_client` -- this one requires a local Sui network running (see [here](#Connecting to Sui Network
)). If you do not have a local Sui network running, please skip this example.
* `cargo run --example coin_read_api`
* `cargo run --example event_api`
* `cargo run --example governance_api`
* `cargo run --example read_api`
* `cargo run --example transaction_builder_api`

## Basic Examples

### Connecting to Sui Network
The `SuiClientBuilder` struct provides a connection to the JSON-RPC server that you use for all read-only operations. The default URLs to connect to the Sui network are:

- Local: http://127.0.0.1:9000
- Devnet: https://fullnode.devnet.sui.io:443
- Testnet: https://fullnode.testnet.sui.io:443
- Mainnet: https://fullnode.mainnet.sui.io:443

For all available servers, see [here](https://sui.io/networkinfo). 

For running a local Sui network, please follow [this guide](https://docs.sui.io/build/sui-local-network) for installing Sui and [this guide](https://docs.sui.io/build/sui-local-network#start-the-local-network) for starting the local Sui network. 

```rust
// Copyright (c) Mysten Labs, Inc.

> // SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Reviewer: nit: remove the license in the code snippet? You have one for the README file overall.

# Sui Rust SDK

> This crate provides the Sui Rust SDK. For the crate documentation, see [https://docs.rs/sui_sdk/](https://docs.rs/sui_sdk/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This crate provides the Sui Rust SDK. For the crate documentation, see [https://docs.rs/sui_sdk/](https://docs.rs/sui_sdk/).
```

Reviewer 3: The crate isn't published on crates.io so we should remove the broken link and not link there yet

Author: Fixed

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Getting started
```
Title is title case, but following headings are sentence case.

Author: Fixed

Add the `sui-sdk` dependency as following:

```toml
sui-sdk = { git = "https://github.com/mystenlabs/sui" }
tokio = { version = "1.2", features = ["full"] }
anyhow = "1.0"
```

The main building block for the Sui Rust SDK is the `SuiClientBuilder`, which provides a simple and straightforward way of connectiong to a Sui network and having access to the different available APIs. 

> A simple example that connects to a running Sui local network and available Sui networks is shown below. If you want to try to run this program, make sure to spin up a local network with a local validator, a fullnode, and a faucet server (see [preqrequisites](README.md) for more inforrmation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example that connects to a running Sui local network and available Sui networks follows. If you want to run this program, make sure to spin up a local network with a local validator, a Full node, and a faucet server (see [preqrequisites](README.md) for more inforrmation).
```
Be careful with words like 'simple'. If it's not simple for the reader for whatever reason, you're unintentionally calling them dumb :)

Author: Fixed

```rust
use sui_sdk::SuiClientBuilder;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), anyhow::Error> {
    let sui = SuiClientBuilder::default()
        .build("http://127.0.0.1:9000") // local network address
        .await?;
    println!("Sui local network version: {}", sui.api_version());

    // local Sui network, like the above one but using the dedicated function
    let sui_local = SuiClientBuilder::default().build_localnet().await?;
    println!("Sui local network version: {}", sui_local.api_version());

    // Sui devnet -- https://fullnode.devnet.sui.io:443
    let sui_devnet = SuiClientBuilder::default().build_devnet().await?;
    println!("Sui devnet version: {}", sui_devnet.api_version());

    // Sui testnet -- https://fullnode.testnet.sui.io:443
    let sui_testnet = SuiClientBuilder::default().build_testnet().await?;
    println!("Sui testnet version: {}", sui_testnet.api_version());

    Ok(())
}

```

> # Rust SDK Examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Rust SDK examples
```

Author: Fixed

> The [examples](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/crates/sui-sdk/examples) folder provides both simple and advanced examples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [examples](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/crates/sui-sdk/examples) folder provides both basic and advanced examples.
```

Author: Fixed

There are five files ending in `_api.rs` which provide code examples of the corresponding APIs and their methods. These showcase how to use the Sui Rust SDK, and can all be run locally against a local running Sui network. Below are instructions on the prerequisites and how to run these examples.  
## Preqrequisites

Unless otherwise specified, most of these examples assume that Sui is installed, and that there is a local network running.

* Install `sui` binary following the [Sui installation](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/doc/src/build/install.md##install-sui-binaries) docs.

> * For local development, after the `sui` binary is installed, run `sui-test-validator` (or `cargo run --bin sui-test-validator` in the [cloned Git repository](https://github.com/mystenlabs/sui) if you don't want to install `Sui`) to spin up a local network with a local validator, a fullnode, and a faucet server. Refer to [this guide](https://docs.sui.io/build/sui-local-network) for more information. The local network will be up and running on `http://127.0.0.1:9000` and the faucet server on `http://127.0.0.1:9123`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For local development, after you install the `sui` binary, run `sui-test-validator` (or `cargo run --bin sui-test-validator` in the [cloned Git repository](https://github.com/mystenlabs/sui) if you don't want to install `Sui`) to spin up a local network with a local validator, a Full node, and a faucet server. Refer to [this guide](https://docs.sui.io/build/sui-local-network) for more information. The local network will be up and running on `http://127.0.0.1:9000` and the faucet server on `http://127.0.0.1:9123`. 
```

Author: Fixed

## Running the examples

> In the root folder of the `sui` repository (or in the `sui-sdk` crate folder), examples can be individually run using the command  `cargo run --example filename` (without `.rs` extension). For example:

Author: Fixed

* `cargo run --example sui_client`
* `cargo run --example coin_read_api`
* `cargo run --example event_api`
* `cargo run --example governance_api`
* `cargo run --example read_api`
* `cargo run --example transaction_builder_api`
## Basic Examples

### Connecting to Sui Network

> The `SuiClientBuilder` struct provides a connection to the JSON-RPC Server and should be used for all read-only operations. The default URLs to connect to the Sui network are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `SuiClientBuilder` struct provides a connection to the JSON-RPC server that you use for all read-only operations. The default URLs to connect to the Sui network are:
```

Author: Fixed

    // Sui devnet -- https://fullnode.devnet.sui.io:443
    let sui_devnet = SuiClientBuilder::default().build_devnet().await?;
    println!("Sui devnet version: {}", sui_devnet.api_version());

    // Sui testnet -- https://fullnode.testnet.sui.io:443
    let sui_testnet = SuiClientBuilder::default().build_testnet().await?;
    println!("Sui testnet version: {}", sui_testnet.api_version());

    Ok(())
}
```

### Reading the total balance for an address
```rust
use std::str::FromStr;
use sui_sdk::types::base_types::SuiAddress;
use sui_sdk::{ SuiClientBuilder};
#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), anyhow::Error> {

   // local Sui network, like the above one but using the dedicated function
   let sui_local = SuiClientBuilder::default().build_localnet().await?;
   println!("Sui local network version: {}", sui_local.api_version());

   let active_address = SuiAddress::from_str("sui_address_here")?;

   // Total balance
   let total_balance = sui_local
      .coin_read_api()
      .get_balance(active_address, None)
      .await?;
   println!("Total balance for address: {active_address} is {}", total_balance);
   Ok(())
}
```

> ## Advanced Examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Advanced examples
```

Author: Fixed

See the transaction builder [example](examples/transaction_builder_api.rs).

> ## Games Examples

Author: Fixed

# Sui Rust SDK

This crate provides the Sui Rust SDK and several APIs to interact with the Sui network. 

## Getting started

Add the `sui-sdk` dependency as following:

```toml
sui-sdk = { git = "https://github.com/mystenlabs/sui" }
tokio = { version = "1.2", features = ["full"] }
anyhow = "1.0"
```

The main building block for the Sui Rust SDK is the `SuiClientBuilder`, which provides a simple and straightforward way of connectiong to a Sui network and having access to the different available APIs. 

> An example that connects to a running Sui local network and available Sui networks follows. If you want to run this program, make sure to spin up a local network with a local validator, a Full node, and a faucet server (see [preqrequisites](README.md) for more inforrmation).

Author: Fixed

> ```rust, ignore

Author: Fixed

    // Sui devnet -- https://fullnode.devnet.sui.io:443
    let sui_devnet = SuiClientBuilder::default().build_devnet().await?;
    println!("Sui devnet version: {}", sui_devnet.api_version());

    // Sui testnet -- https://fullnode.testnet.sui.io:443
    let sui_testnet = SuiClientBuilder::default().build_testnet().await?;
    println!("Sui testnet version: {}", sui_testnet.api_version());

    Ok(())
}

```

# Rust SDK examples

The [examples](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/crates/sui-sdk/examples) folder provides both basic and advanced examples.
There are five files ending in `_api.rs` which provide code examples of the corresponding APIs and their methods. These showcase how to use the Sui Rust SDK, and can all be run locally against a local running Sui network. Below are instructions on the prerequisites and how to run these examples.  
## Preqrequisites

Unless otherwise specified, most of these examples assume that Sui is installed, and that there is a local network running.

* Install `sui` binary following the [Sui installation](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/doc/src/build/install.md##install-sui-binaries) docs.

> * For local development, after you install the `sui` binary, run `sui-test-validator` (or `cargo run --bin sui-test-validator` in the [cloned Git repository](https://github.com/mystenlabs/sui) if you don't want to install `Sui`) to spin up a local network with a local validator, a Full node, and a faucet server. Refer to [this guide](https://docs.sui.io/build/sui-local-network) for more information. The local network will be up and running on `http://127.0.0.1:9000` and the faucet server on `http://127.0.0.1:9123`. 

Author: Fixed

## Running the examples

In the root folder of the `sui` repository (or in the `sui-sdk` crate folder), you can individually run examples using the command  `cargo run --example filename` (without `.rs` extension). For example:
* `cargo run --example sui_client`
* `cargo run --example coin_read_api`
* `cargo run --example event_api`
* `cargo run --example governance_api`
* `cargo run --example read_api`
* `cargo run --example transaction_builder_api`
## Basic Examples

### Connecting to Sui Network
The `SuiClientBuilder` struct provides a connection to the JSON-RPC server that you use for all read-only operations. The default URLs to connect to the Sui network are:

> - Local: http://127.0.0.1:9000

Reviewer: That tracks, thanks for checking on that!

# Sui Rust SDK

This crate provides the Sui Rust SDK. For the crate documentation, see [https://docs.rs/sui_sdk/](https://docs.rs/sui_sdk/)

## Getting Started

> We are currently working on publishing the Sui Rust SDK crate on crates.io. Until then, add the `sui-sdk` dependency as following:

Author: Fixed

```toml
sui-sdk = { git="https://github.com/mystenlabs/sui" }
tokio = { version = "1.2", features = ["full"] }
anyhow = "1.0"
```
<!-- Add the following dependency to your `Cargo.toml` file.  -->
<!-- 
```toml
sui_sdk = "0.1"

> ``` -->

Author: Fixed
